# Chapter 1

The face of Sergeant Wolashni was a picture worthy, as he stared at the enormous spaceship that had jumped out of hyperspace just seconds before.
They had picked up *something* on multiple scanning devices just before that, but there had been no obvious pattern to any of it.
They knew it wasn't anything humans had designed, cause none of the signals could be translated to anything useful, so when the sergeant had looked out the windows to wonder what it could be, he had not in his wildest imagination thought it wouldn't be themselves that would try tracking down the source, but the source coming to the them. 

"Se-Se... Second Lieutenant... " Wolashni stuttered.

Deeply absorbed in the blinking screens Second Lieutenant Jensen didn't move her attention in his direction, but kept tapping different graphs on the displays.

"I'm trying to make sense of these signals, sergeant. Perhaps you wouldn't mind giving me a hand?" came the reply quite sternly.

Wolashni considered the multiple witty comebacks she had warned him of, on several occasions, to never make any of again. 

Jensen pulled a graph up on the big screen, and threw her hands in the air resigning. 

"I don't get it!" she almost yelled. "The signal - the *exact same* signal got - sent with a 40 minutes delay, but the signal strength increased so much, it..." 

"Could be right outside?" offered Wolashni, still in half shock of what he was starring at outside the 12 cm thick glass, separating the three man crew from the previous void and  empty space, and the now - at least - 100 times bigger spaceship looming no more than one or two clicks away.

Jensen's eyes almost blazed with a fire she had kept at bay while Captain Wilson had still been able to commander the crew, but after he had passed the responsibility to the next in line, her, she no longer felt these comebacks should go with just verbal reminders.

She slowly started to turn, with her wide open nostrils as the only source of air, since her lips were pushed together to a thin line. 

"Wolashni" she started slowly, with a cold in her voice that could have made ice taps from her breath alone. "Your impeccable timing of silly comebacks have at no point - not once - since we left the Mothership over 5 months ago, had any luck to cheer up any of the crew members on this vessel" she hissed out.
Her gaze were somehow distant as she started to recall the impossibly stupid comments he had breathed in dire situations that could have killed them all - not due to the comments, but they always seems to follow grim situations.

As her mind came to that realization, a chill went through her bones. "Did you loose a radio on your last walk outside, Wolashni, and the floating device is what I will see when I look outside?" Her eyes could have shot Lazer beams like those in comic books when her head finally locked in on Sergeant Wolashni's one foot taller figure. 

As his own comprehension of the new situation became less surrealistic, he glanced back to his superior in command, tried to find the words needed to defend himself of an actual plausible accusation, but also how little of importance it had right now, but since he had no situation to relate this to, he had no comeback what so ever. 

"N.. No..." he started, lifting his index finger out towards what multiple sources normally referred to as *First Encounter*.

"It's ehh..." he continued, swallowing the spit which had gathered in his mouth.
"It wor... bet... mm" - he could quite decide which of the two.
The Fleet had trained and drilled all of their cadets on hours and hours of how they should encounter new lifeforms. 
And all of their training had been how humans found other life - not the other way around. 
When a superior civilization would meet another less superior, history spoke with a clear voice of both North and South America, and further back in times with the romans, or the ancient Egyptians.
The intend of the superior civilization usually dictated an outcome of the meeting. 
And right now their own vessel looked like a peanut compared to what had emerged out of the bare nothing.

"It's... that" he finally said slowly, while the Second Lieutenant made her way towards the large window with a now puzzled expression on her face. 

"It's wha..." she started and abruptly stopped, her eyes wide, mouth gaping, and frozen in place. 

As she flabbergasted started to find words or action, Wolashni finally found his. 

"I know, right?" he said giving his superior a light push with his elbow. 
